Brain Control Interface Technology

I would like to write about Brain Control Interface Technology. This technology is not much implemented in the present time, but this technology has great scope in both Medical and Technical field.
It also attracts large amount of applications. Lot of RnD works are still going on to further implement this.

Now you might be curious about how this stuff works. In simple terms, brain signals will act as input for the computer programs. It basically skips the " body's neuromuscular system"
 Usually our brain sends the signals to out muscular system to perform desired action. For example if you want to stand up, our brain sends signal to our legs and gives command to stand-up.
 But this technology gives direct path to communicate between brain and the object to be controlled. Hence, it finds its usage in medical field to help the paralyzed patients.
 
 The brain signals from neurons is converted to digital signals by the chips and fed to the programs to perform desired actions. Every time we think,move or smell our brain neurons create signals and transmits it among the different neurons in the brain.
 these signals are electrical signals generated due to potential difference between the ions of the neuron. These signals can interpreted and made sense out 
of it so that it can be used by devices. For example it helps the paralyzed person to walk or even write.  There are prosthetic limbs which work based on the electrical signal given to it,

When man sees dog, his eyes send the picture of dog to the brain and brain analyzes the picture and recognize it as a dog. Now if we consider blind person who cannot see, we can replace the work done by "Eyes"
with camera and send the same picture to the brain and hence helps blind person to see the dog virtually.

I feel its also possible that, using this we can also communicate with the person who is miles away from us without talking, just by thinking! Isn't that cool? Now you see the importance of BCI!!

It is a very interesting topic and also vast subject. This was the brief information about the Brain Computer Interface.
